The Project Gutenberg eBook, Above the French Lines, by Stuart Walcott


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Above the French Lines
       Letters of Stuart Walcott, American Aviator: July 4, 1917, to December 8, 1917

Author: Stuart Walcott

Release Date: June 26, 2020  [eBook #62480]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ABOVE THE FRENCH LINES***

E-text prepared by David E. Brown and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team (http://www.pgdp.net) from page images generously made available by
Internet Archive (https://archive.org)

Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 62480-h.htm or 62480-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/62480/62480-h/62480-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/62480/62480-h.zip)


      Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive. See
      https://archive.org/details/abovefrenchlines00walc

Transcriber’s note:

      Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.


[Illustration: STUART WALCOTT IN HIS AEROPLANE]

ABOVE THE FRENCH LINES

Letters of Stuart Walcott,
American Aviator: July 4,
1917, to December 8, 1917

Princeton University Press
Princeton
London: Humphrey Milford
Oxford University Press
1918

Copyright, 1918, by
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS

Published April, 1918
Printed in the United States of America


[Illustration: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS]


INTRODUCTION

[From the _Princeton Alumni Weekly_ of January 30, 1918.]


It is now seven weeks since the dispatches from Paris reported that
Stuart Walcott was attacked by three German airplanes and brought down
behind the German lines, after he himself had brought down a German
plane in his first combat on December 12, 1917, and that it was feared
he had been killed; but even now, after the lapse of nearly two months,
it is not definitely known whether his fall proved fatal, or whether
the earnest hope of his friends that he is still alive may be realized.
The reports are conflicting. A cable message of January 7 said that in
Germany it was reported that S. Walcott had been killed by a fall on
December 12 near Saint Souplet; but Dr. Walcott received a letter on
January 19 which holds out some hope that the fall was not fatal and
that his son may be a prisoner in Germany. This letter, dated December
17, is from a young aviator named Loughran,[A] who was Stuart Walcott’s
roommate at the flying station. He gives this report of what was told
to him by an observer and pilot who saw the combat:

  “On the 12th of December at 11:30 a. m., there were five pilots to go
  out on high patrol, including Stuart and myself. But I was prevented
  from going, because of a wrenched ankle. Stuart and the other pilots
  left here at 11:40 a. m. for high patrol, which means they are to fly
  above the thousand metres. Two of the pilots had to return because of
  motor trouble, leaving one pilot whom Stuart was following.

  “At 12:50 a. m. they ran across a German bi-place machine. The
  French pilot attacked first, but had to withdraw because of trouble
  with his machine gun. He reports that the Spad [Stuart Walcott’s
  machine], that had been following him, he last saw a thousand metres
  above him, or the German. Also that the German had gone back over
  his lines. The infantry and artillery observers report the French
  pilot’s attack and combat. And that six minutes later the German
  returned over our lines. And that the Spad that was seen flying
  at a very high altitude, came down and attacked the German, and
  succeeded in bringing him down in flames. In doing so he had to fly
  quite a way over the German territory. And that the Spad had started
  to return, when three German fighting machines were seen diving on
  him, and forcing him down. The Spad was last seen doing a nose-dive
  perpendicular, behind their lines. That is all the information I have
  received up to date.

  “This is what makes all the boys think that Stuart is alive:

  “A nose-dive perpendicular is used very often in combat, but is very
  dangerous, as it is very difficult for one to come out of and yet
  have their motor running; that reason might force him to land; also
  there was very little chance for him to get away from them by flying,
  as they were above, and the only sensible thing to do was to land;
  and as we were only three days in this _secteur_, the French think
  he might have been mixed up as to the direction for home; or that
  he was slightly wounded and could not turn his machine toward the
  French lines.

  “I have tried every way possible to get information about Stuart. I
  have sent the numbers of his motor and machine to Major S. yros, who
  is trying to trace it through the Red Cross service.

  “One of the French pilots of this _escadrille_, who is a very good
  friend of your boy, shot down a German biplane on 13th of December.
  The machine fell behind our lines. The pilot was dead before reaching
  the ground. But the observer was only slightly wounded, so the boys
  of that _escadrille_ have asked the commander of the group if we
  could be permitted to go and talk to the German, as he may know
  something about the Spad that fell behind his lines the day before.
  We hope to know whether we will be permitted to do so or not,
  tomorrow.

  “It takes two months before we receive the report from Germany
  officially. In the meantime you will read all sorts of reports in the
  newspapers. But I will cable or have Capt. Peter Boal do so, if I get
  any news that is true.

  “The case of Buckley, the American who fell Sept. 5, was reported as
  being in flames from five thousand metres down, and fell in German
  territory. The observers reported that it landed on its back and
  burned completely. His parents were notified of his death; newspapers
  reported the terrible death he died. Well, Sir, on November 25 we
  received a letter from him, saying he was enjoying the best of health
  and was satisfied with his surroundings in the prison camp in Germany.

  “So we are all hoping the same for Stuart.

  “I have all Stuart’s personal things, and will give them to Capt.
  Boal the first chance I get.

  “Mr. Walcott, it is beyond words for me to try and tell you how
  grieved we all are about Stuart, and how great a loss it is to the
  Escadrille, for him to be away. He was more than liked by every
  member and officer, and gave promise of doing great things, was
  always up in his machine trying to better himself in combat flying;
  there never was a minute that he was idle, if it was possible for
  him to fly. And never a more generous and kinder boy. Only the night
  before the patrol he last went out on, he gave me every care in the
  world, got up during the night to make sure I was comfortable and to
  do anything he could for my ankle.

  “From one who has been with Stuart through all his training, and
  roommate on the Front,

                                 “Yours respectfully,
                                                       “E. J. LOUGHRAN.”